April 15, 2020 17:13 IST
Updated:
April 15, 2020 17:13 IST
Coronathon, an online, non-profit, volunteer-led hackathon, is calling coders, hardware engineers, designers, marketers and healthcare professionals to build software solutions to address various concerns posed by COVID-19.
Around 2,700 volunteers have signed up for the online event, running since March 22.
The hackathon seeks to address problems such as connecting senior citizens with volunteers; matching PPE demand and supply; COVID dashboard for state government of Meghalaya; building reusable anti-viral masks; predicting hotspots; issuing electronic passes for citizens to go out; one-stop directories for all-India COVID contact info; bed availability and COVID case management solutions for hospitals; crowd-sourced maps of essential services and booking slots for grocery shops/pharmacies.
“We had two “demo days” where 32 projects were showcased before panels from Google, Ayushman Bharat, National Health Authority, VCs and UN Healthcare Innovation Exchange,” said Sathish Raghuraman, one of the organisers.
He says more than 10 such projects are being launched either individually or are in association with various governments. “We want these projects to get more adoption and we will be facilitating the process,” says Raghuraman.
The hackathon is happening via Slack group; and anyone with a project idea and looking for a team to execute it can participate in the hackathon. For more details, visit https://coronathon.in/
You have reached your limit for free articles this month.
Already have an account ? Sign in
Start your 14 days trial now. Sign Up
Subscription Benefits Include
Find mobile-friendly version of articles from the day's newspaper in one easy-to-read list.
Unlimited Access
Enjoy reading as many articles as you wish without any limitations.
Personalised recommendations
A select list of articles that match your interests and tastes.
Faster pages
Move smoothly between articles as our pages load instantly.
Dashboard
A one-stop-shop for seeing the latest updates, and managing your preferences.
Briefing
We brief you on the latest and most important developments, three times a day.
Not convinced? Know why you should pay for news.
*Our Digital Subscription plans do not currently include the e-paper ,crossword, iPhone, iPad mobile applications and print. Our plans enhance your reading experience.
A letter from the Editor
Dear reader,
We have been keeping you up-to-date with information on the developments in India and the world that have a bearing on our health and wellbeing, our lives and livelihoods, during these difficult times. To enable wide dissemination of news that is in public interest, we have increased the number of articles that can be read free, and extended free trial periods. However, we have a request for those who can afford to subscribe: please do. As we fight disinformation and misinformation, and keep apace with the happenings, we need to commit greater resources to news gathering operations. We promise to deliver quality journalism that stays away from vested interest and political propaganda.
